# Loan-Prediction-dataset_Chi-square-_ANOVA_Regression-Predict-Loan-Amount-Sanctioned
Implementing Chi-square _ANOVA_Regression Diagnostic to Predict Loan Amount Sanctioned_Regularization on a loan dataset in R

I used a dataset called “Loan Prediction.csv”, sourced from the website “AnalyticsVidhya.com”. The dataset has 615 observations of 13 variables that describe the loan amount sanctioned for each individual based on various factors like credit history, property, applicant and co-applicant income, employment, property etc.
The dataset comprises of both categorical and numerical data which is further analysed to comprehend various aspects by which the loan amount has been authorized.

Objective:
To understand the dataset under study, analyses various trends and patterns of the data by using techniques like regression model, Chi-square test, Anova test etc. that could influence the decision on approving the loan and to predict the same. 

Questions:
1.	Loan amounts are sanctioned analysing various factors.  Keeping Loan amount as the dependent variable, we would like to come up with the regression model to predict the loan amount that can be sanctioned in future based on certain influential factors on it like the Applicant’s Income, Co-applicant’s income, Loan amount’s term and Credit history. 
2.	The number of dependents column shows the number of dependents that the actual loan applicant has. We would like to perform a chi-square test to test if sanctioning of the loan (Loan Status) is dependent on the number of dependents that the applicant has or not.
3.	We want to answer the question that is there a reason to believe that the marital status of customers and their Self-employed have an impact on their Loan amount? We want to implement the ANOVA test to find the answer.
4.	Finding the better performing model for the dataset by evaluating the stepwise selection technique against LASSO & Ridge.
5.	To know if a person will get a loan sanctioned or not depending on the other variables using a General Linear Model(GLM).

The objective of this report is to understand the dataset, its variables, pattern/ trend and answer the preliminary operational questions. By observing the exploratory data analysis, we can see that there are variables that can potentially influence the loan sanction amount such as the applicant, co-applicant income, credit history etc.
From chi-square analysis, we can perceive that Loan Status is independent of the number of dependents that the applicant has since the p-value is 0.3689 and is much greater than 0.05, thus we fail to reject the null hypothesis. 
Using GLM, we observe that only 3 variables (CoapplicantIncome, Credit_History, Property_Area) are statistically significant. These 3 variables are used to develop a model to predict if a person will be sanctioned a loan or not with an accuracy of 73.51%(Test Data) . 
From the regression analysis, we can infer that the variables such as applicant income, co-applicant income, and loan term have a significant influence on the outcome variable and by observing the AIC and BIC values we can say that the model performs better after removing the non-significant variables comparing it with the level of significance, removing outliers and normalizing the response variable.
Using two-way ANOVA we conclude that there is a significant difference in the means of loan amount based on the Marital status of the customers and self-employment. For interaction between Married and self-employed we can see that the P-value is 0.6255 and also by an interaction plot, we find that there is no interaction between Married and self-employed because two lines on the interaction plot are parallel. Thus we can conclude that there is no interaction between Married and self-employed variables.
Through the analysis, we have found various other variables that might be significant which broadens the scope for further evaluation of variables in future reports. To comprehend the same, we have used advanced techniques such as LASSO, Ridge and the Generalized linear method to understand the loan status variable and the predictor variables that has high significance on the outcome variable. This will also allow us to come up with a better-performing model for the dataset. By computing LASSO and Ridge the accuracy performance of both the models is similar RMSE values – 69 & 70. However, since Lasso regression used fewer variables and produced simpler, easier-to-interpret models, with only a set of simplified predictions, we can assume that Lasso regression predicts better than ridge regression. 
We can also see that the linear regression model tends to give us a better-performing model when compared to LASSO & Ridge. The residual error in the linear regression model is 66 which is more adequate than that of the advanced techniques. Thus, we can conclude that the best-performing model that predicts the loan amount is rendered by simple linear regression with an RMSE of 66 and adjusted R squared of 0.38.

